content/languages/java/tomcat.md, before:

---
title: (Apache) Tomcat
tags:
- java
- tomcat
- webserver
---

Apache Tomcat is a free and open-source implementation of the Jakarta Servlet, Jakarta Expression Language, and WebSocket technologies. 
It provides a "pure Java" HTTP web server environment in which Java code can also run.
<!--more-->
It is a Java web application server, although not a full JEE application server.

## The `setenv.[bat|sh]` script

The `setenv.[bat|sh]` script can be used to set all environment variables apart from `CATALINA_HOME` and `CATALINA_BASE`.
The `setenv` script (if it exists) is called from the `catalina` (startup) script.

The script is placed either into `CATALINA_BASE/bin` or into `CATALINA_HOME/bin` directory and is named `setenv.bat` (on Windows) 
or `setenv.sh` (on *nix). The `setenv` script file has to be readable, executable and is by default absent on a fresh installation.

For more information see https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-10.0-doc/RUNNING.txt

### Extra Classpath items

You can use the `setenv` script to add extra folders/files to the classpath:
```shell
# setenv.sh
export CLASSPATH="/usr/local/app/config:/user/local/app/creds
```

### CATALINA_OPTS (a.k.a JVM arguments)

You can use the `setenv` script to configure JVM arguments that are called when Tomcat is stared:

```shell
# setenv.sh
export CATALINA_OPTS="-javaagent:/user/local/app/otel/opentelemetry-javaagent-1.25.0.jar -Dotel.javaagent.configuration-file=/user/local/config/opentel.properties"
```

> Note you can also use variables such as:
> `export CATALINA_OPTS="$VAR_1 VAR_2 "`

### Environmental Variables

You can use the `setenv` script to configure the JRE_HOME variable (for example) by creating following script file:

```cmd
On Windows, %CATALINA_BASE%\bin\setenv.bat:

set "JRE_HOME=%ProgramFiles%\Java\jre8"
exit /b 0
```

## Manager Interface

The Tomcat Manager App is a web application that is packaged with the Tomcat server. 
It provides the basic functionality needed to manage deployed web applications.

There two management interface options here:
1. A web-based (HTML) application - for humans
2. A text-based web service - for scripting

The web-based management management interface at `http[s]://<server>:<port>/manager/html/`

A user account is needed to access the management interface (i.e. a role of `manager-gui`) which needs to be configured 
in the `<TOMCAT_HOME>/conf/tomcat-users.xml` file.

For example:

```xml
<user username="admin" password="admin" roles="manager-gui"/>
```

## Windows Service

Tomcat has some utilities to assist with the creation (and control) of a Windows service to run Tomcat.

The main utilities are:

* `service.bat` - script to manually create the service.
* `tomcat10w.exe` - is a GUI application for monitoring and configuring Tomcat services.
* `tomcat10.exe` - is a service application for running Tomcat 10 as a Windows service.

For more information see the [Windows Service How-To](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-10.1-doc/windows-service-howto.html).

### Edit existing service

The command `./tomcat10w.exe //ES[//ServiceName]` starts the GUI application which allows the service configuration 
to be modified, started and stopped.

For example:

```powershell
./tomcat10w.exe //ES[//ServiceName]
```

Commit message:

Add to Tomcat and kustomize pages

content/languages/java/tomcat.md, after:

---
title: (Apache) Tomcat
tags:
- java
- tomcat
- webserver
---

Apache Tomcat is a free and open-source implementation of the Jakarta Servlet, Jakarta Expression Language, and WebSocket technologies. 
It provides a "pure Java" HTTP web server environment in which Java code can also run.
<!--more-->
It is a Java web application server, although not a full JEE application server.

## The `setenv.[bat|sh]` script

The `setenv.[bat|sh]` script can be used to set all environment variables apart from `CATALINA_HOME` and `CATALINA_BASE`.
The `setenv` script (if it exists) is called from the `catalina` (startup) script.

The script is placed either into `CATALINA_BASE/bin` or into `CATALINA_HOME/bin` directory and is named `setenv.bat` (on Windows) 
or `setenv.sh` (on *nix). The `setenv` script file has to be readable, executable and is by default absent on a fresh installation.

For more information see https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-10.0-doc/RUNNING.txt

### Extra Classpath items

You can use the `setenv` script to add extra folders/files to the classpath:
```shell
# setenv.sh
export CLASSPATH="/usr/local/app/config:/user/local/app/creds
```

#### Adding classpath items when using Intellij (or another IDE)

Below is a simple `setenv.bat` script which will allow you to use the `TOMCAT_CLASSPATH` environment variable to add things
to Tomcat's classpath in a _relatively_ dynamic way.

```shell
@ECHO OFF
REM
REM A simle Tomcat/Catalina setenv.bat script which can be used to add things to the CLASSPATH
REM

echo ""
echo "Running CATALINA setnev.bat"
echo ""
echo "Setting CLASSPATH=%TOMCAT_CLASSPATH%"
set CLASSPATH=%TOMCAT_CLASSPATH%
echo ""
```

### CATALINA_OPTS (a.k.a JVM arguments)

You can use the `setenv` script to configure JVM arguments that are called when Tomcat is stared:

```shell
# setenv.sh
export CATALINA_OPTS="-javaagent:/user/local/app/otel/opentelemetry-javaagent-1.25.0.jar -Dotel.javaagent.configuration-file=/user/local/config/opentel.properties"
```

> Note you can also use variables such as:
> `export CATALINA_OPTS="$VAR_1 VAR_2 "`

### Environmental Variables

You can use the `setenv` script to configure the JRE_HOME variable (for example) by creating following script file:

```cmd
On Windows, %CATALINA_BASE%\bin\setenv.bat:

set "JRE_HOME=%ProgramFiles%\Java\jre8"
exit /b 0
```

## Manager Interface

The Tomcat Manager App is a web application that is packaged with the Tomcat server. 
It provides the basic functionality needed to manage deployed web applications.

There two management interface options here:
1. A web-based (HTML) application - for humans
2. A text-based web service - for scripting

The web-based management management interface at `http[s]://<server>:<port>/manager/html/`

A user account is needed to access the management interface (i.e. a role of `manager-gui`) which needs to be configured 
in the `<TOMCAT_HOME>/conf/tomcat-users.xml` file.

For example:

```xml
<user username="admin" password="admin" roles="manager-gui"/>
```

## Windows Service

Tomcat has some utilities to assist with the creation (and control) of a Windows service to run Tomcat.

The main utilities are:

* `service.bat` - script to manually create the service.
* `tomcat10w.exe` - is a GUI application for monitoring and configuring Tomcat services.
* `tomcat10.exe` - is a service application for running Tomcat 10 as a Windows service.

For more information see the [Windows Service How-To](https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-10.1-doc/windows-service-howto.html).

### Edit existing service

The command `./tomcat10w.exe //ES[//ServiceName]` starts the GUI application which allows the service configuration 
to be modified, started and stopped.

For example:

```powershell
./tomcat10w.exe //ES[//ServiceName]
```
